speaking to many inhabitants of Gaza
yesterday and today I have heard the
same messages time and time
again if we are not safe in an unra
school we are not safe anywhere in Gaza
they say and they add the world has
failed us has failed to protect
protection of civilians is an expression
we do not want to hear anymore many
commented I also call on all parties to
respect the sanctity of un premises and
to exercise the highest precaution in
the conduct of military operations that
affect civilians in this
region that the attack on the shelter in
jabalia came only six days after a
strike on a designated unra emergency
shelter in banun caused multiple
injuries and fatalities to internally
displaced people taking Refuge there and
making the call all the more in
Urgent there is another challenge in our
operational field to which I want to
draw attention on three occasions we
have found in empty unra facilities
Rockets belonging to Armed groups in
Gaza we immediately alerted all relevant
parties to their existence and we
strongly condemned placement of weapons
in our
schools unra is now working with un
Partners to improve procedures to
address such violations in a manner that
does not compromise the safety of Staff
or civilians including
unra
beneficiaries it should also be said
that these discoveries do not in any way
justify attacks on unra facilities and
in particular ones Sheltering
idps unra takes robust measures to
closely monitor all its facilities to
which it has access in an effort to
prevent misuse by combatant and other
parties dear members of the council
allow me to turn to the most difficult
challenge facing unra in Gaza today we
are currently hosting over
220,000 internally displaced people a
number which has grown every day of the
conflict and at an accelerated Pace in
the last week this is four times higher
than the peak number of displaced people
during the conflict in 2008 and
2009 I am not here referring to the tens
of thousands of displaced in Gaza that
have found temporary shelter with most
families only to those that are
registered in unra schools we are doing
everything possible to provide the displ
with minimum
needs food mattresses and blankets but
we are now into the fourth week of mass
displacement in facilities unequipped to
shelter large numbers for such a
duration conditions are increasingly
dire in the shelters there is no water
for Hygiene very few showers and
latrines are totally inadequate disease
outbreak is beginning with skin
infections scabs and others there are
thousands of pregnant women in our
schools deliveries are precarious and we
are shelting Sheltering newborn infants
in these appalling conditions our
ability to mitigate this situation is of
course heavily restricted by ongoing
hostilities we are gravely concerned
about this situation equally we are
gravely concerned about any possible
additional displacement that will drive
up the numbers in our shelters with as
many as 2,500 displaced people residing
in schools and an average of 80 people
to a classroom we have exceeded the
tolerable limits we can accommodate it
is therefore with alarm that I have
received accounts of new instructions
from the Israeli military to
Palestinians to evacuate the zun area of
Gaza City and areas in the vicinity of
Kan Yunis in view of these facts of the
shelling affecting unra schools on six
occasions I believe the population is
facing a precipice and appeal to the
International Community to take the
steps necessary to address this extreme
situation should further large-scale
displacement indeed occur the occupying
power according to International
humanitarian law will have to assume
direct responsibility to assist these
people dear members of the council the
new reality being created before our
eyes in the occupied Palestinian
territory in Israel is not sustainable
under any circumstances the humanitarian
and political costs grow by the day with
each death and injury with the
continuing destruction of infrastructure
vital to the life of the Palestinian
people in Gaza and with the continuing
violations of international law as I
have stated on previous visits to Gaza
the rocket firing on Israeli cities and
endangering Israeli civilians is
unacceptable and must cease we all
aspire to see a middle east in which its
people share common interest a stake in
each other's well-being and a commitment
as the Secretary General recently said
to peace Justice and security for all in
the region this cannot happen under the
conditions of military occupation and
those caused by the pitiless conflict
now unfolding it is past time for an
immediate and unconditional ceasefire to
be agreed by parties and called for by
the council in its recent statement
allow me also to add my voice to those
calling for the redress of the
underlying conditions that fuel this
conflict and the violence that repeats
itself in full view of the world in
other words a ceasefire while
immediately required to save lives is
not enough it is not conceivable to
Simply return to the situation existing
before this conflict not withstanding
Israel's legitimate security concerns
the illegal blockade of Gaza must be
lifted this small territory is home to
1.8 million people who face the prospect
that it will become unlivable in a
matter of only a few years unless urgent
steps are taken by the International
Community to enable the development of
Gaza and in the ensuring security for
all in the region unra truthful to its
mandate will remain steadfast in its
commitment and operations whether during
the terrible emergency or in the
recovery phase once the fighting has
ceased but much more is required to
ensure lasting peace and stability in
the region